# pandas-challenge
In this project, we have to create and manipulate  provided Pandas DataFrames to analyze school and standardized test data.

## Data Source
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC. Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. 

## Features
Using Pandas and Jupyter Notebook, a report  was created that includes the following data.
1)   District Summary
•    Total number of unique schools
•    Total students
•    Total budget
•    Average math score
•    Average reading score
•    % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
•    % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
•    % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

2)   School Summary
•    School name
•    School type
•    Total students
•    Total school budget
•    Per student budget
•    Average math score
•    Average reading score
•    % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
•    % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
•    % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

3)    Show Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing) in a DataFrame called "top_schools".
4)    Show Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing) in a DataFrame called "bottom_schools".
5)    Dataframe showing Math Scores by Grade for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.
6)    Dataframe showing Reading Scores by Grade for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.
7)    Dataframe showing school performance based on average spending ranges (per student).
8)     Dataframe  showing school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).
9)     Dataframe showing school performance based on the "School Type"


### Prerequisites
•    Tools need to have installed before project:
•    Python 
•    Jupyter Notebook
•    GitHub
•    Local git repository pandas-challenge was created , cloned and changes were pushed to main branch.

## Analysis
•    A brief analysis summary and conclusions from the calculations are added at the beginning of the jupyter notebook report.

